- Device tree is an tree data structure which represents the physical organization of the hardware system.
- Bootloader loads the linux kernel image and the device tree in the memory.
- Non enumerable devices can be represented in the device tree.
- Device tree source(DTS):source files for device tree, Device Tree Compiler(DTC):compiler to convert source into binary and Device Tree Blob(DTB):Binary which is loaded in the memory.

### Memory Mapped IP Block - UART

- alias to reference into the other nodes. Address is the place of the register banks for that IP.
```
auart0: serial@8006100 {
		//Defines the programming model for the device. Allows the operating system to identify
		// the corresponding device driver.
		// there can be compatibility with multiple drivers.
		// The compatible property binds the device with the driver.
		compatible = "fsl, imx28-auart", "fsl, imx23-auart";
		
		//Address and length of the register area.
		reg = <0x8006a000 0x2000>;
		
		//interrupt number
		interrupts = <112>;

		//DMA engine and the channels with names
		dmas = <&dma_apbx 8>, <&dma_apbx 9>;
		dma-names = "rx", "tx";

		//Reference to the clock
		clocks = <&clks 45>;

		//The device is not enabled
		status = "disabled";
};
```
- Kernel has the API interface to query the device tree to get the information from the DTB.
 
	 - Getting a reference to the clock described by the clocks property
 		
		` s->clk = clk_get(&pdev->dev, NULL);`
	 - Getting the I/O registers resource described by the reg property
 		
		`r = platform_get_resource(pdev, IORESOURCE_MEM, 0);`
	 - Getting the interrupt described by the interrupts property
 		
		`s->irq = platform_get_irq(pdev, 0);`
	 - Get a DMA channel described by the dmas property
 		
		`s->rx_dma_chan = dma_request_slave_channel(s->dev, "rx");
 		s->tx_dma_chan = dma_request_slave_channel(s->dev, "tx");`
	- Check some custom property
 		
		`struct device_node *np = pdev->dev.of_node;
 		if (of_get_property(np, "fsl,uart-has-rtscts", NULL))`

- Device tree files can be included in the nested form. .dtsi are included in the files and the .dts is the final file.

### Main uses of Device Tree
```mermaid
graph LR
1.(Platform Identification) --> 2.(Runtime Configuration) --> 3.(Device Population)
```
#### Platform Identification
Kernel setup the architecture with `setup_arch()` from `arch/arm/kernel/setup.c` which calls `setup_machine_fdt()` from `arch/arm/kernel/devtree.c`

**Question: How Kernel Identifies the Device Tree Configuration which is the candidate for running the underlying machine.**
- Every machine in the `mach-*` directories define the machine files. for example the machine used for the RPI-3B the board file used is the `board_bsm2835.c` which defines -
```c
static const char * const bcm2835_compat[] = {
#ifdef CONFIG_ARCH_MULTI_V6
	"brcm,bcm2835",
#endif
#ifdef CONFIG_ARCH_MULTI_V7
	"brcm,bcm2836",
#endif
	NULL
};

DT_MACHINE_START(BCM2835, "BCM2835")
	.init_machine = bcm2835_init,
	.reserve = bcm2835_board_reserve,
	.init_early = bcm2835_init_early,
	.dt_compat = bcm2835_compat
```

- Kernel from the `setup_machine_fdt()` parses the device tree and searches for the root node `compatible` property with the dt\_compact list set in the `struct machine_desc`.  _see the above snippet for dt\_compact_.
- After selecting the best machine , setup_machine_fdt() also scan the early device tree after selecting the `machine_desc`.
#### Runtime Configuration
- Device tree also responsible for passing on the data from the firmware to the kernel. These are called the runtime configuration. These are passed from the dt node `chosen`
	- Kernel parameters
	- initrd start and end address.
	- stdout path
	```c
	chosen {    
        bootargs = "console=ttyS0,115200n8 earlyprintk";    
        stdout-path = &uart0;    
        linux,initrd-start = <0x4500040>;    
        linux,initrd-end   = <0x4800000>;    
    }; 
	```
#### Device Population
- Once the platform and the early configuration are selected the kernel will unflatten the device tree via `unflatten_device_tree()`
- The board platform register the hooks for the platform initialization `.init_machine(), .init_early() and .init_irq()` which are later called by the startup code for platform initialization. Platform only includes the SoC here. 
	- `.init_early` is used for the machine specific setup, `arch/arm/mach-bcm/board_bcm2835.c`
	- `.init_irq` for the interrupt chip initialization.  `arch/arm/mach-bcm/brcmstb.c`
	- `init_machine` is used for the platform device model initialization from the device tree including initialization of the clocks. `arch/arm/mach-bcm/board_bcm2835.c` 
